# On Embracing Creativity

I’ve been developing a software for what I call “work management”; which is based on tracking tasks you “have a hand on” or invested even a little time or resources. This way you never plan unlike most trackers and todo apps makes us to; but always keep a book of past, time invested work in front in order to ease deciding on the most profitable next direction forward, aka pivoting. So you never need to structure future of a project early, and every day continue from different component of the work.

## The subject

The subject of the post is the interface element implemented for the “breakdown suggestions” feature. To summarize the feature think it as it is just like people asking LLMs for breakdown suggestions now I was thinking providing users commonly followed and previously succeeded steps by others by keeping a “database” of anonymized/common breakdowns.

<style>
  video {
    margin:100px auto;
    width:min(100%, 542px);
    display: block;
  }
</style>

<video controls muted preload loop autoplay playsinline poster="image-set(
url("/assets/creativity/light.png") 1x type("image/png") media("(prefers-color-scheme: light)"),
url("/assets/creativity/dark.png") 1x type("image/png") media("(prefers-color-scheme: dark)"))">

  <source src=".assets/creativity/light.webm" type="video/webm" media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)"/>
  <source src=".assets/creativity/light.mp4" type="video/mp4" media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)"/>
  <source src=".assets/creativity/dark.webm" type="video/webm" media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)"/>
  <source src=".assets/creativity/dark.mp4" type="video/mp4" media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)"/>
</video>

On the aesthetics side of the element I’ve tried to resurrect skeuomorphism just because I correlate the idea behind it to one of my purposes. It was aligning with my first goal on the greater context; making the app friendly for managers to offer to their employees from each level of tech familiarity without the user need training time from the manager for getting familiar with the app.

I expected the physical look of highway route signs to influence the user for the purpose of why they are presented with the information it carries. As people see those objects outdoors countless time for their lives the list of components should carry the meaning there are alternative routes with different steps and expected time of completion.

## The question

There is still a little in me believes people still review skeuomorphic elements with the influence of iOS7 marketing material therefore reject them with the irrelevance of artisanship spent to polish their looks rather than the functionality it provides like making features easier to discover and understand their purpose.

Is it anything non-flat outdated by conviction?

My main question is that in what direction you would review this UI element if you would come across in an app out of context? And how this would change for your colleagues, co-workers from other deps and non tech savvy relatives?
