# Introducing Golistics

[Golistics](https://github.com/ufukty/golistics) is a linter that'll help Go developers to keep non-reflection, holistic methods like serializer, validator and comparators up-to-date and complete, even you miss to update them following the field list.

## Problem

Let me introduce you the problem.

Instead of using reflection, I usually implement manual methods that needs to visit all fields of a struct. Like validators, serializers or comparators. Eg:

```go
type Request struct {
  Age    HumanAge
  School School
  Class  StudentClass
}

func (r Request) Validate() map[string]error {
  errs := map[string]error{}
  if err := r.Age.Validate(); err != nil {
    errs["age"] = err
  }
  // ...
}

func (r Request) String() string {
  return fmt.Sprintf(`Age: %q, School: %q, Class: %q`, r.Age, r.School, r.Class)
}

func (r Request) Equals(s Request) bool {
  return r.Age == s.Age &&
    r.School == s.School &&
    r.Class == s.Class
}
```

Note that the `Request.String` and `Request.Equals` is accessing all the fields by principle. Which means they also need to preserve that propery throughout the future changes made in the field list of `Request` type.

The problem is that each such struct adds \~3 new long-term liability to my chore list because each such method needs to be updated with the list of fields of the struct. Adding the 4th field to `Request` creates a need navigate to the struct's methods and check if anyone needs update.

I thought why it would not be better to use linter to perform those checks at CI if any such method needs an update?

## Solution

Now let me introduce you my solution.

I created a program I call Golistics, honoring the use of word "holistic" as if it is a known term to describe methods supposed to access all fields of a struct. 

Golistics is a Go vet style analyzer (or a linter plugin in a broad sense) which warns the developer when a desired method goes out-of-sync with the receiver's (or underlying type's) field list. You opt-in any method for such checks by adding this annotation to the method doc-comment:

```go
//golistics:all
func (r Request) String() string
```

Note, method doc-comment is the comment group above the method's signature.

Partial holisticallity is also supported. As well as checking _all_ fields, Golistics can also be directed to only require _exported_ fields:

```go
//golistics:exported
func (r Request) String() string
```

## Install

Installing Golistics is easy. See [the repository](https://go.ufukty.com/golistics) for up-to-date instructions.

## Example

Briefly:

```go
type (
  Borders struct {
    Top, Right, Bottom, Left Border
  }
  Margin struct {
    Top, Right, Bottom, Left any
  }
  Dimensions struct {
    Height     any
    Width      any
    unexported any
  }
)

//golistics:exported
func (s Dimensions) Strings() []string {
  return nil
}

//golistics:all
func (s Borders) IsEqual(y Borders) bool {
  return false
}

//golistics:all
func (s Margin) IsEqual(y Margin) bool {
  return safeEq(s.Right, y.Right) &&
    safeEq(s.Bottom, y.Bottom) &&
    safeEq(s.Left, y.Left)
}
```

Run the linter:

```
$ golistics ./...
gss.go:173:1: missing fields: Height, Width
gss.go:241:1: missing fields: Bottom, Left, Right, Top
gss.go:246:1: missing field: Top
```

## Testing

The solution is both unit and manually tested.

The test case for unit test can be seen [on GitHub](https://github.com/ufukty/golistics/blob/main/pkg/analyzer/testdata/gss.go) with `// want:`\-like assertions. Maybe it communicates the problem better than the short example above.

## Summary

Golistics reduces the duration for noticing outdated holistic methods and possbility to ship code with them; thus improving reliability and maintainability.
